OFFICE NOTE
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CELL
23/11/2023

ROLES OF SUPERVISORS 

 

GREETINGS!!



As a mentor, your primary responsibility is to take care of the well-being of your scholars. Having experienced the journey towards a Ph.D., you are in a better position to understand their state of mind and provide timely advice to help them cope with the academic pressures that are an integral part of the program. Interact with your scholar and prepare the syllabus as per the template found in this dossier and request your BoS chair to have this approved by members of BoS. Give the copy to your scholar and provide the necessary instructions. 

 

Start your first meeting by briefing your scholars on the Ph.D. regulations, followed by the arrangements for the course 3 and 4 syllabi. Share your contact details and set some rules for interactions. Make it clear when and where meetings will be held. Ensure that your scholars record the meeting minutes to be effective. Refrain from calling for meetings at odd hours. 

 

Schedule meetings well in advance, either online or offline, with clear agenda points. If scholars request a meeting, ask them to email their queries and seek appointments ahead of time. This practice will require scholars to do some background work, raise specific research queries, and allow you enough time to offer necessary advice, making meetings more productive. 

 

Suggest topics from the thrust areas of research as defined in the national mission. Help scholars identify relevant research journals and teach them the art of reviewing research articles. Instil in them the art of observation and inference.



Set competitive question papers to test the competency of your scholars in the relevant research area. Avoid questions that require memorization and focus on those that are analytical and require critical thinking. 

 

Help scholars register in ORCID, Scopus, Google & Clarivate, and ask them to follow at least 10 best researchers in their relevant fields. This practice will enable scholars to receive alerts as and when the experts publish any research articles. 